.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH blaunch 1 "OpenLava Version 4.0 - Aug 2016"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBblaunch\fR - launches remote parallel tasks on a set of hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBblaunch\fR\fB \fR[\fB-n\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIhost_file\R | \fB-z\fR \fIhost_name...\fR | \fIhost_name\fR]
command [argument...]
.PP
\fBblaunch \fR[\fB-h\fR | \fB-V\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR
.PP
.PP
Many parallel applications including MPI implementations use passwordless ssh
as their launching mechanism. The blaunch command provides an alternative of
ssh as a transparent method for launching parallel applications within OpenLava.
.PP
blaunch supports the following core command line options as ssh: ssh \fIhost_name\fR
\fIcommand\fR
.PP
All other ssh options are not supported.
.PP
blaunch transparently connects directly to the RES on the remote host, and
subsequently creates and tracks the remote tasks, and provides the connection
back to OpenLava. Full job process resource usage is monitored and collected by
blaunch, and can be viewed via \fIbjobs -l\fR.
.PP
blaunch only works under OpenLava. It can only be used to launch tasks
on remote hosts that are part of a job allocation. It cannot be used
as a standalone command.
.SH OPTIONS
.BR
.PP
.TP 
\fB-n
\fR
.IP
Standard input is taken from /dev/null.
.TP 
\fB-u\fR \fIhost_file\fR
.IP
Executes the task on all hosts listed in the \fIhost_file\fR.
.IP
Specify the path to the file that contains a list of host names.
Each host name must be listed on a separate line in the host list file.
.IP
This option is exclusive of the -z option.
.TP
\fIhost_name\fR
.IP
The name of the host where remote tasks are to be launched.
.TP 
\fB-z\fR \fIhost_name...
\fR
.IP
Executes the task on all specified hosts.
.IP
Specify a list of hosts on which to execute the task. If multiple host names are
specified, the host names must be enclosed by quotation masks (" or ') and
separated by white space.
.IP
This option is exclusive of the -u option.
.TP 
\fIcommand\fR [\fIargument...\fR]
.IP
Specify the command to execute. This must be the last argument on the command
line.
.TP 
\fB-h
\fR
.IP
Prints command usage to stderr and exits.


.TP 
\fB-V\fR 

.IP
Prints openlava release version to stderr and exits.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.PP
res(8), pim(8) 
